## Release Notes for 2025.11.00

## 2025.11.00

- **This is a major release with the kernel version updated from `6.6.77` to `6.12.33`.**
    + Dropped support of internal rtc driver since it was not used.
    + The kernel ppa is now updated to sifive-sandbox/linux-update-1
- **Along with Ubuntu image, it is mandatory for customers to update to latest bootchain image with which the Ubuntu image has been validated.**
- Added support in OpenSBI to trap and emulate HENVCFG and SENVCFG CSR.
- Validated with the [bootchain](https://github.com/sifiveinc/freedom-u-sdk/releases/download/2025.11.00-HFP550/bootloader_ddr5_secboot.bin) image released along with Yocto 2025.11.00-HFP550 [release](https://github.com/sifiveinc/freedom-u-sdk/releases/tag/2025.11.00-HFP550)

## Steps to install Fancontrol service

If any user chooses to upgrade to latest kernel using `apt upgrade` mechanism (currently using 2025.02.00 or lower version) instead of flashing the prebuilt images, then s/he needs to install the fancontrol service manually. Steps below.
- $ sudo apt upgrade
- $ sudo apt install fancontrol-config-p550-premier
- $ sudo reboot

## Open GL instructions

2025.02.00 introduced support for Open GL for the iGPU. The associated GPU instructions are provided below

### Commands to run OpenGL based applications

To run OpenGL based appications through iGPU (onboard GPU), user needs to enable zink driver support. Steps documented below.

For example to run SuperTuxKart, At the linux shell
- $ export MESA_LOADER_DRIVER_OVERRIDE=zink
- $ supertuxkart

### Steps to switch from iGPU to External GPU

By default iGPU is used as the GFX engine.

- sudo mv /usr/share/X11/xorg.conf.d/10-pvr.conf /usr/share/X11/xorg.conf.d/10-pvr.conf.hidden
- Power off the board.
- Connect External GPU card.
- Power on the board.

### Steps to switch from External GPU to iGPU

- sudo mv /usr/share/X11/xorg.conf.d/10-pvr.conf.hidden /usr/share/X11/xorg.conf.d/10-pvr.conf
- Power off the board.
- Remove External GPU card.
- Power on the board.

## WebGL demos

To run WebGL samples from [WebGL](https://webglsamples.org/) using External GPU cards, user needs to explicitly enable webgl support from firefox browser. Steps documented below.

- Open a new tab in Firefox and type about:config in the address bar
- Click "Accept the Risk and Continue".
- In the search bar, type webgl.force-enabled.
- Double-click the preference to toggle its value to true.
- Run WebGL sample from [WebGL](https://webglsamples.org).

## Steps to install stress-ng utility

```
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:colin-king/stress-ng
sudo apt update
sudo apt install stress-ng
```

## Known Limitation(s)

- GRUB menu is not shown on bootup with External GPU cards.
- The default version for `stress-ng` for noble version is `0.17.06-1build1`. With this version of stress-ng, stressor `af-alg` will fail on kernel 6.12. In order to pass this stressor, customer must use the stress-ng version >= 0.18.09. Steps for this are documented above in this document.

## Known Issues

- The default version for `fio` packaged with Ubuntu is v3.36 and is not stable. Please download and manually compile [v3.37](https://github.com/axboe/fio/releases/tag/fio-3.37)
- Epiphany browser is not stable.
  - Firefox is included in the Ubuntu image.
- On executing a reboot command with external GFX connected, sometimes, the board reboot hangs.
- Bus error reported from UART driver at startup. This will be addressed in the subsequent releases.
