## Release Notes for 2025.02.00

## 2025.02.00

- The current 2024.11 release does not support OpenGL. Updated iGPU DDK to enable support for OpenGL.
- The user will be required to run specific commands for executing OpenGL apps and for switching between internal and external GPU, these are documented below.
- Validated with the [bootchain](https://github.com/sifive/freedom-u-sdk/releases/download/2024.11.00-HFP550/bootloader_ddr5_secboot.bin) image.
- Along with Ubuntu image, customers should also update to the corresponding bootchain image with which the Ubuntu image has been validated.

## Commands to run OpenGL based applications

To run OpenGL based appications through iGPU (onboard GPU), user needs to enable zink driver support. Steps documented below.

For example to run SuperTuxKart, At the linux shell
$ export MESA_LOADER_DRIVER_OVERRIDE=zink
$ supertuxkart

## Steps to switch from iGPU to External GPU

By default iGPU is used as the GFX engine.

- sudo mv /usr/share/X11/xorg.conf.d/10-pvr.conf /usr/share/X11/xorg.conf.d/10-pvr.conf.hidden
- Power off the board.
- Connect External GPU card.
- Power on the board.

## Steps to switch from Rx550 to iGPU

- sudo mv /usr/share/X11/xorg.conf.d/10-pvr.conf.hidden /usr/share/X11/xorg.conf.d/10-pvr.conf
- Power off the board.
- Remove External GPU card.
- Power on the board.

## Known Issues

- The default version for `fio` packaged with Ubuntu is v3.36 and is not stable. Please download and manually compile [v3.37](https://github.com/axboe/fio/releases/tag/fio-3.37)
- Epiphany browser is not stable.
  - Firefox is included in the Ubuntu image.
- On executing a reboot command with external GFX connected, sometimes, the board reboot hangs.
- Bus error reported from UART driver at startup. This will be addressed in the subsequent releases.
