## Release Notes for 2025.07.00

## 2025.07.00

- Updated OpenSBI version to 1.6
    + Modified CSR registers 0x7C3 and 0x7C4 to improve memory Performance.
- Added PL2 and CCACHE PMU drivers in kernel to enable PMU perf events.
- Corrected register address of SLOW command in PAC1934 driver to address bootup error.
- Integrated changes to Map 48 GB PCIe bridge window using multiple ATU regions.
- Validated with the [bootchain](https://github.com/sifiveinc/freedom-u-sdk/releases/download/2025.07.00-HFP550/bootloader_ddr5_secboot.bin) image released along with Yocto 2025.07.00-HFP550 [release](https://github.com/sifiveinc/freedom-u-sdk/releases/tag/2025.07.00-HFP550)
- Along with Ubuntu image, customers should also update to the corresponding bootchain image with which the Ubuntu image has been validated.
- If the user automatically gets this update, one can recognize the latest version using below commands/steps.
    + Verify the OpenSBI version from bootup logs. It should be `OpenSBI v1.6`.
    + To verify the kernel, execute `uname -a` command after boot process is complete. The output should be as below
      ```
      ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ uname -a
      Linux ubuntu 6.6.77-2-premier #2 SMP PREEMPT_DYNAMIC Tue Jul  8 17:47:24 UTC 2025 riscv64 riscv64 riscv64 GNU/Linux
      ```

## Steps to install Fancontrol service

If any user chooses to upgrade to latest kernel using `apt upgrade` mechanism (currently using 2025.02.00 or lower version) instead of flashing the prebuilt images, then s/he needs to install the fancontrol service manually. Steps below.
    + $ sudo apt upgrade
    + $ sudo apt install fancontrol-config-p550-premier
    + $ sudo reboot

## Open GL instructions

2025.02.00 introduced support for Open GL for the iGPU. The associated GPU instructions are provided below

### Commands to run OpenGL based applications

To run OpenGL based appications through iGPU (onboard GPU), user needs to enable zink driver support. Steps documented below.

For example to run SuperTuxKart, At the linux shell
$ export MESA_LOADER_DRIVER_OVERRIDE=zink
$ supertuxkart

### Steps to switch from iGPU to External GPU

By default iGPU is used as the GFX engine.

- sudo mv /usr/share/X11/xorg.conf.d/10-pvr.conf /usr/share/X11/xorg.conf.d/10-pvr.conf.hidden
- Power off the board.
- Connect External GPU card.
- Power on the board.

### Steps to switch from External GPU to iGPU

- sudo mv /usr/share/X11/xorg.conf.d/10-pvr.conf.hidden /usr/share/X11/xorg.conf.d/10-pvr.conf
- Power off the board.
- Remove External GPU card.
- Power on the board.

## WebGL demos

To run WebGL samples from [WebGL](https://webglsamples.org/) using External GPU cards, user needs to explicitly enable webgl support from firefox browser. Steps documented below.

- Open a new tab in Firefox and type about:config in the address bar
- Click "Accept the Risk and Continue".
- In the search bar, type webgl.force-enabled.
- Double-click the preference to toggle its value to true.
- Run WebGL sample from [WebGL](https://webglsamples.org).

## Known Limitation(s)

- GRUB menu is not shown on bootup with External GPU cards.

## Known Issues

- The default version for `fio` packaged with Ubuntu is v3.36 and is not stable. Please download and manually compile [v3.37](https://github.com/axboe/fio/releases/tag/fio-3.37)
- Epiphany browser is not stable.
  - Firefox is included in the Ubuntu image.
- On executing a reboot command with external GFX connected, sometimes, the board reboot hangs.
- Bus error reported from UART driver at startup. This will be addressed in the subsequent releases.
