## Release Notes for 2025.04.00

## 2025.04.00

- Updated Linux Kernel version to 6.6.77.
- Added Fancontrol service and supporting configuration file. Users updating Ubuntu from an existing installing on the board, will have to manually install the fan control service with the steps provided below. The Fancontrol configuration file is set to
    + Set MAXTEMP to 65.
    + Set MINTEMP to 25.
    + Set PWM range from 25 to 255.
- Integrated kernel patches to support AMD GPUs having rDNA architecture. Full validation is pending.
- Validated with the [bootchain](https://github.com/sifiveinc/freedom-u-sdk/releases/download/2025.04.00-HFP550/bootloader_ddr5_secboot.bin) image released along with Yocto 2025.04.00-HFP550 [release](https://github.com/sifiveinc/freedom-u-sdk/releases/tag/2025.04.00-HFP550)
- Along with Ubuntu image, customers should also update to the corresponding bootchain image with which the Ubuntu image has been validated.

## Steps to install Fancontrol service

If any user chooses to upgrade to latest kernel using `apt upgrade` mechanism instead of flashing the prebuilt images, then s/he needs to install the fancontrol service manually. Steps below.
    + $ sudo apt upgrade
    + $ sudo apt install fancontrol-config-p550-premier
    + $ sudo reboot

## Open GL instructions

2025.02.00 introduced support for Open GL for the iGPU. The associated GPU instructions are provided below

### Commands to run OpenGL based applications

To run OpenGL based appications through iGPU (onboard GPU), user needs to enable zink driver support. Steps documented below.

For example to run SuperTuxKart, At the linux shell
$ export MESA_LOADER_DRIVER_OVERRIDE=zink
$ supertuxkart

### Steps to switch from iGPU to External GPU

By default iGPU is used as the GFX engine.

- sudo mv /usr/share/X11/xorg.conf.d/10-pvr.conf /usr/share/X11/xorg.conf.d/10-pvr.conf.hidden
- Power off the board.
- Connect External GPU card.
- Power on the board.

### Steps to switch from External GPU to iGPU

- sudo mv /usr/share/X11/xorg.conf.d/10-pvr.conf.hidden /usr/share/X11/xorg.conf.d/10-pvr.conf
- Power off the board.
- Remove External GPU card.
- Power on the board.

## WebGL demos

To run WebGL samples from [WebGL](https://webglsamples.org/) using External GPU cards, user needs to explicitly enable webgl support from firefox browser. Steps documented below.

- Open a new tab in Firefox and type about:config in the address bar
- Click "Accept the Risk and Continue".
- In the search bar, type webgl.force-enabled.
- Double-click the preference to toggle its value to true.
- Run WebGL sample from [WebGL](https://webglsamples.org).

## Known Limitation(s)

- GRUB menu is not shown on bootup with External GPU cards.


## Known Issues

- The default version for `fio` packaged with Ubuntu is v3.36 and is not stable. Please download and manually compile [v3.37](https://github.com/axboe/fio/releases/tag/fio-3.37)
- Epiphany browser is not stable.
  - Firefox is included in the Ubuntu image.
- On executing a reboot command with external GFX connected, sometimes, the board reboot hangs.
- Bus error reported from UART driver at startup. This will be addressed in the subsequent releases.
